# Title: Urgency and Impact of the National Open Hardware Infrastructure
(working title) 

## Executive summary
t.b.c.

# Demonstration through cases

-> alternative cases are very welcome.

## Opentrons
Opentrons is a company that produces laboratory robots designed to automate experiments based on the open source 3D printing framework. From the outset, their robots are designed to be affordable and accessible, allowing researchers to focus on their work rather than manual pipetting.

In 2019, when the Covid-19 pandemic hit New York very hard and the limited test capacity was not enough to cover even a small fraction of the patients, Opentrons succeeded in adjusting their robots to automate the process of testing patient samples for the virus, allowing researchers to process more samples more quickly, all in a few days.

Opentrons played a crucial role in increasing the test capacity during the COVID-19 pandemic in New York. By automating the process of testing patient samples for the virus, Opentrons helped researchers process more samples quickly, which was essential in the face of the high demand for testing.

The cost reduction of each test from $2000 to $14 was a significant achievement, as it helped make testing more affordable and accessible to a larger population. Additionally, the reduced duration of testing from 20 days to less than 24 hours allowed for quicker results, enabling individuals to receive prompt medical attention and reducing the spread of the virus.

At the same time, in the Netherlands the test capacity reached its limit very quickly, despite the well-equipped national health services (the GGD) because of the limited availability of the proprietary buffer from the exclusive provider company

The impact of Opentrons' efforts during the pandemic cannot be overstated. Their contribution in increasing testing capacity and developing low-cost, open-source ventilators has helped save numerous lives. Their work is a testament to the power of open source innovation and collaboration.

Currently Opentrons is also working with researchers to develop a low-cost, open-source ventilator to help with the shortage of ventilators during the pandemic.

The evident contrast between the impact of open source vs proprietary technologies in the times of urgency, begs the question if the old paradigm of technology transfer from research to practice based on long and secretive process of attracting private investors needs revision

## Open-flexure
-> From the talk of Richard Bowman in Veldhoven, must be shortened.
 
The open flexure microscope, currently in it 7th generagion costs less than an Xbox, nonetheless, it's a serious piece of lab research equipment. Due to its small footprint it can go to a lot of places that a big microscope can't. It fits in an incubator, or a backpack and it's relatively inexpensive. That also opens a lot of doors in terms of applications where you might not be able to spend a hundred times that much on a big commercial automated microscope. And because it mostly prints in a single piece, it's easy to replicate, um, which leads to a lot of fun sharing the design with people around the world. 

Um, because the barrier between the digital design, which is something that is trivial to share, and the physical instruments, which is something that's useful in your lab, is much lower, uh, using 3D printing than it would be if I had to spend a month working with my mechanical workshop, uh, to make this reality, um, that has grown into a community that comes from all over the world. Um, you can, you can recognize a number of countries in this, uh, rather crowded slide. Um, but there are lots of different things you can do with this. Um, the majority of our funding came through, uh, sort of crossover between the UK's aid funding and the UK's research funding, uh, working with collaborators in Tanzania to develop locally produced microscopes for better malaria diagnosis. Um, but there are other applications all over the place, um, ranging from looking at biodiversity in soil, uh, micro fauna, um, through to pathology research and teaching, um, with collaborators in Houston. Um, people building optical sectioning microscopes and more advanced optical techniques in there. Um, and a variety of other techniques that are built on top of what's effectively, uh, a nicely engineered mechanical platform for microscopy. Uh, that eliminates one of the things that lots of people have had to reinvent independently when building a technique that requires a microscope. 

Um, so I've said this is a global community project. Uh, this is a very out of date map, um, showing all the countries where we've had reports of open flexion microscopes being built or used. I say reports because of course, as an open project, I actually have no idea where all the open flexion microscopes are. And it's a constant source of joy to me, uh, that I find myself in a zoom call with someone in their lab. And I noticed they got one of my microscopes on their shelf. Um, that makes me incredibly happy. Um, so we counted, I think 45 countries so far, but the list is always growing. Um, and I think that's in part because we've put a lot of effort into making it easy to build. Um, that involves a lot of effort on the documentation, and that's a whole talk in itself. 

Um, but, uh, it also stems from the fact that we've used consumer electronics and 3D printing wherever possible. And so the barrier to entry is quite low. That makes it work very nicely as an open hardware project. Um, the, the value of us sharing this openly is increased, I think, by the fact that it's quite easy to take those open designs and, and actually implement them. Um, and lastly, we've tried quite hard not only to share the technical documentation, but to think about how to allow people to engage with the project. Um, many of the core developers are fairly serious software nerds, and so I think it's completely natural to communicate through the medium of GitLab. Um, I'm aware that not everyone who works in a research lab, uh, has that mindset. And so doing things like setting up a website that pulls the necessary things out of the repository, makes them available in a friendly manner, uh, or having a forum where people can discuss in a slightly more informal way how to use it, what was difficult, how to get hold of the components, um, and all of these things would eventually feed through into the more formal documentation and designs. 

Um, actually that was crucial in allowing the community that had been developing in many ways, unseen, uh, even by me. Um, it allowed that community to become visible. Um, and then to build on itself, which was, was really cool. Um, I realized that there may well be people for whom open source hardware is a new term. Um, so I thought I would put up the open source hardware definition. Uh, this comes from Oslo, which is the American Open Source Hardware Association. Um, it's analogous to open software in that it grants you through a variety of different licenses, a number of important freedoms, the freedom to get hold of a design, to make that design, to use it for whatever purpose you want to modify it and inspect it. And then to distribute your modified improved design to other people. Um, and actually most open hardware licenses also explicitly permit you to sell, um, hardware based on that design. 

Uh, and I'll happily expand on why that's an, an important freedom for hardware, but not right now. Um, what I will say is that I think open hardware is a particularly good fit for scientific research. Um, much of the hardware that we use day to day is mass produced, right? You're making it in quantities of hundreds of thousands of units. That means it's very cheap. It's very, uh, well integrated and it has huge economies of scale, right? It makes no sense for me to build my own DVD drive, right? Especially not if I buy all parts from Thor Labs, because then you spend 5,000 euros to make a DVD drive that doesn't work. Um, but in science, we need to understand what goes on inside the black box, right? And often we need to change what goes on inside the black box. And that means that a black box covered in warranty stickers is often quite a bad fit for a science laboratory. 

At the same time, even if it is an off-the-shelf scientific instrument, it's still a specialist thing, right? There aren't really economies of scale when you're shipping hundreds or even thousands of units per year. Um, and so that means that the companies can't afford to put enough engineering effort into the software. Um, but it, it also means that DIY equipment isn't competing with the economies of scale you get from mass production. Um, and so there's a flourishing community that is growing, uh, of people who are publishing and using, make it yourself scientific instruments. Um, and indeed this is not a recent phenomenon, right? Scientists have shared designs for apparatus for, uh, hundreds of years. Uh, it's just that in recent times we've maybe done it a bit less. Um, so that takes me to my last illustration, um, which is the story of how something gets from an idea in my head to a useful tool in somebody else's lab. 

# International and national context

## Open source technology development
-> Transcribed from the talk of Richard Bowman in Veldhoven, must be shortened.

The currently prominent mode of technology creation out of fundamental research is as follows: I have an idea. I developed my idea. At some point that idea is well enough developed to disclose it to my tech transfer office. If they like it, then they will patent it. That gives us some measure of protection that nobody else is allowed to use the idea without our permission. We then license that patent to a company, the company do some manufacturing. The fact that the company probably have to do about 10 times as much work in R&D as I did developing the idea in the first place. That company can potentially generate some revenue money. And if we've gotten the paperwork right, some of that money flows back to research. But, in order for this to work, the first half of that process has to be secret, because many of the current partnerthisp scheme are geared towards secrecy and non-disclosure. Without secrecy one has prejudiced your own patent with prior art. The second part of the process is generally exclusive because that allows the company to take on investment. It is gives them an incentive to take the risk on bringing up a new product. And fair enough, that's how this is all justified. But actually it's a very leaky pipeline. Um, and there are a lot of places where your project ends up being abondened. Maybe the tech transfer office don't like it and they won't patent it. Maybe once they patented it, nobody wants to license it. And maybe after a company has licensed it, all they want to do is use the patent to troll other people and they're not actually interested in putting your equipment into other people's labs. 

An alternative pathway, I have the idea, I immediately share the idea before the idea is patentable. That then means there are a lot more brains that can work on the project. This isn't work in progress. It's open right from the start. Um, and nothing stops a company coming along using that non-exclusive license and manufacturing it. And in fact, people can still make money this way and do like open trons. Um, but your friends can also make it themselves. And the open license, uh, gives you confidence that if you do make it yourself and if you develop something exciting based on that, that you are not then going to be embroiled in lots of nasty litigation. Um, and of course, the fact that you shared this early and lots of people have gotten on board means not only that, hopefully your stuff's already getting used in research, but, uh, it also enables you to improve, uh, the design. And so this community can start improving something that then becomes a community resource. 

Uh, it's no longer tied just to my lab and my company. Um, and it's already out in the world doing exciting stuff. So the question is, are you the 1%? Are you so certain of your idea that it's gonna make it through all of that long, difficult exclusive secret process and come out again as a massive commercial success? Cuz I would argue the majority of scientific instruments are not that amazing. A commercial proposition and the benefits of doing it openly, far outweigh, um, the relatively small chats of commercial success by keeping everything secret. Um, and with that always stop. 

## Open hardware developments in US

## Open hardware in academia

## Open hardware for research (worldwide)

# National preparedness

TODO: Here we can argue that the Open Science NL program has created a focus point for open science, but has not ellaborated on open hardware

TODO: we can also bring the examples of Delft, Eindhoven and Utrecht on how local initiative have brought open hardware development into education and reasearch. 

# Experience of the eScience center
-> Transcribe from the talk of Nicolas Renaud

we've been created in 2011 by W and se, so we grandchild of history organization that created us as a national center for the development and application of, uh, research software. Now, we grew quite a bit. At the moment we're about a hundred people working at the center, 60 ofish maybe a bit more now. Our research software engineer. So really doing this, uh, the, the software development, we are project based organization. So we grant bats 50 project a year. Alright, uh, we can go in detail on how we do this, but that's not the topic of this, of this session. 

We do a lot of software releases. So we do sync as it's been mentioned before, that software is also a publication. So paper are one type of publication, but not the only one. So we really try to raise the profile of software as a first class citizen in the, in the academic landscape. So we do a lot of release and publication of software. We do have also normal scientific publication to which we contribute to together with our research partner. And another thing that we do that I will touch upon at the very end of the, the presentation is we do a lot of training as well to train people into better software practices in the academic landscape. 

So we do all of that across all the technology. So we have, uh, artificial intelligence, machine learning type of project analytics, high performance computing, data processing. So we do all also technology. The one thing that links all the project usually is the software quality. All the software that we develop in this project should be reusable, maintainable, sustainable, so that the software outlive the project and can be really reused by all the people outside of the, the research team. And we also do that across all domains. So we have project in life science, natural science, social science, and, uh, and humanities. So, so we have four section now for department, uh, in the center. And each department is about 20 people. And, you know, running by 20 projects or something. So the, the usual workflow for one of a project is starts with a research question. 

So one of the researchers say, I would like to research this topic. And usually this researcher does a little bit of exploring and a bit of hacking around with their own code. That's most of the time why we start the project on our site. And we start by tailoring, developing, and really making that code right, A little bit more sustainable, a bit more robust than what they did on their own right. And none of this, usually we end up applying the codes to their research question. We end up, you know, making nice papers and everybody's happy. Let's stop here. What we like to do a lot is to take the codes that we've done, right, make it more general, more generally applicable to other use case to other research group, right? To package it so that it's nicely deployable, but it hast as documentation that people can build. 

The code is easily so very much like what you mentioned for the hardware, but really on the software side. And we have this cycle of, you know, exploring and, and, and uh, and consolidating the code. And out of that, what we get is that this code can be reused. Meaning that someone that was not attached to the project at the beginning can take this piece of code and use them for their own. So that's where all this efforts are making the world source open, easily documented, easily usable, and so on, really pays off. Cause it means that out of, you know, funding ground project, then an entire community can benefit from the economy project. So as an example, that's, it's one that I use quite often, right? It's something that we started, we didn't start the community, right? It was already a community having quite a substantial software stack. 

It's in the climate science domain. So people really analyzing simulation of climate science. The code is called tool, uh, it's quite large, uh, contributed number of contributors. So we have more 80 contributors, most of them, and the most prominent contributors of the code people from the science center. So we really did a great job putting everything to together, orchestra the software and making the software quite high quality. Uh, one thing that, uh, so it has also, so it's on GI or a project and mostly on GitLab, right? And all the real badges that you see on the top is really to give some sort of certainty that the developer have done as much as they can to make sure that the code is, uh, you know, compiled that the are test are pass. That's the, that's the coverage of the code is now. So we tested as much of the code as we can, but documentation is in place that you can install the code. 

Nice. And, um, another, so this, this project is a huge project, let's say it has a lot of scientific impact, a lot of people publishing papers, right, based on this. But the impact of the code goes way beyond this. And last year there was, uh, uh, this articles in the, the Elon slides that's, uh, converted for which sort of global warming and slide seven, right? That is here, you can see on the middle of the bottom right of the slide. That's the tool. So this tool was used, we need to create all of the analytics that was used to, you know, <inaudible> politics, that we need to do something about that. And that's really a very strong side of impact that is hard to measure, right? In the current academic setting. But, but that's really something that we try to, uh, to do as well. 

So in terms of supporting and uh, disseminating software, we also try to develop tool for people to, uh, make the software available or known to a much broader audience. So not so long ago we released what we call the, the research software directory, which is a platform where people can submit the software so that all the researcher can find it much more easy. So either we give away for, uh, research software engineer to show the impact of their work. I'm gonna come back on that point in a second. It also sh other organization to showcase what they've been doing and all the research they've been doing in, in the, in that project. You can also find more, uh, pro more research software more easily once through the, through the tool. And you also citation the software itself, not of the paper, but of the software itself. 

Something that come back, uh, in a second. So we started up for sound, right? Uh, but now many organizations are also contributing to the research software directory, putting their own software and their own projects in there. So we still by far the main contributor to the, uh, to the RSD with more than about 200 software. But you see, we even have a New Zealand thing of just a minute something because, you know, they also see the value of them. And of course you can sort of slice into all this data and show, for example, only what's, uh, the software that you have, have been, uh, developing and have been involved in so that, you know, organization can also use that to see and show to funders what they've been doing. Research, for example, just to give you an example, this is one page of one of the software that we've developed, what the, the page does, but at least putting the software in context. 

So not only, okay, this is the, the address of the GitHub before, but why the software has been developed in the first place, how it's useful in which project is been used and so on. So on the left side, you have the full page on gonna quickly go down, right? So here you have the base information with the name of the software, the line, the activity, right on GitHub, which in there something that I've mentioned, uh, the site, the software, it's something we've developed together with where, you know, you have site the software now, so each software, you can decide it directly. So you don't need to have a paper. So you can search your software, uh, directly through, uh, through that and the little context. So you know what the tool does, it's just scroll down, you can see the highlights. So what's, you know, what hardware, the highlights of this projects. 

So we need the broad context, which project I've been using, uh, this software, uh, with also fleeing to publication and so on, can also see all the developers and the main developer, all the developer that have been there, the list of projects that this project and so on. And so that's really a tool for us to, uh, to disseminate software. Why we develop this. I think it's been touched upon in the previous slide, right? It's, uh, basically to justify the fact bases in our, so through the software directory, we have both research and developer, they interact right by exchanging software and so on. So on one side that we make software a little bit more exchangeable between group and communities, but what's important for all of that is to try to have an idea how useful and how useful the software is. And we want to do that, but it lead toes of funder and the policy makers to reach support and software. 

That's really one of the tools that we are trying to use to make sure that all the policymaker keep on, uh, funding open source and open science. So that's something that we invite everyone to use and we could extend it for open hardware. I think that it could be, there could be something on just finish something that we do and we think is very important teaching. So we, uh, not only run project, but we also teach everyone in the Netherland that is affiliated to, uh, a research, uh, institution. Uh, we come and really participate in this teaching. We have a wide range of courses from basic programming skills to GP programming to keep learning to all sort of things. Uh, so I think that's rough full program, but in broad line, right, of what we do. And we find that important. Cause a, it's important for us when we collaborate with perform that they have the, you know, require skill for us to work with them, but it's also important for them to have the skills. So that's when the project ends. They cannot actually continue developing the software. So they know, entirely rely on us to deployment. They can do that next finish. And, uh, thank, 

# Proposed activities of the NOHI

